src/spec-mdx/exceptions-to-the-rules/exceptions-to-the-rules.mdx, before:

---
title: "Exceptions to the rules"
slug: "/concepts/exceptions-to-the-rules/"
date: "2021-01-01T12:12+10:00"
summary: "Because rules are meant to be broken, right?"
---

import finder_14_timesheets_and_expenses from "./Finder__14-timesheets-and-expenses-min.png"

# Exceptions to the rules

**Where it makes sense to do so**, go ahead and break the rules. I won’t judge you.

## Storing things with dates in them

An example from my life: I sent weekly timesheets to a company I worked for. Category <JD>14 Timesheets &amp; expenses</JD> is where I kept them.

I thought about creating a new number for each week’s timesheets, but soon ended up with a system like this:

<div className="mb-4 mr-6">
	<pre className="jd-block">
		{`14.01 Timesheets for 1601
14.02 Timesheets for 1602
...
14.19 Timesheets for 1619`}
	</pre>
</div>

(I use ‘year-week’ as my date format for this sort of thing, so <span className="jd-inline not-italic">1601</span> was the 1st week of 2016. Use whatever works for you.)

If I had created a new number each week, I’d need to <Link to="/concepts/tracking-your-numbers/">track it</Link>. That’s an overhead I didn’t need – **the system is meant to make my life easier.**

More importantly, <JD>1619</JD> is a _better_ way to represent ‘the 19th week of 2016’ than <JD>14.19</JD>. In this case, my numbers were getting in the way.

## Folders inside Johnny.Decimal folders

I told you not to do this. I am not to be trusted.

Here’s how my timesheets folder looks:

<img
	src={finder_14_timesheets_and_expenses}
	alt="Finder window showing folders within the 14 Timesheets & Expenses folder"
	width="293"
	height="134"
	className="screenshot mb-4"
/>

I did this because **it makes more sense this way.**

My timesheets are still in one place. I haven’t broken the Johnny.Decimal system because everything is still very organised.

Notice that things still sort according to time of creation. That's why we use <JD>1601</JD> and not <JD>0116</JD>

### Emailing my weekly timesheet

When I email my weekly timesheet to the boss, I use the following subject line:

<div className="emailSubject mr-2 sm:mr-6 inline-block">
	<strong>Subject:</strong> Timesheets and expenses [14.01.1619]
</div>

I’m extending the ‘<Link to="/concepts/managing-email/">use Johnny.Decimal numbers in your email subject</Link>’ concept by putting the full number, including the <JD>yyww</JD> bit, in the subject. Our number has grown, but **that’s okay because it’s still very structured.**

This allows me—or the boss—to find any timesheet instantly. Search in Outlook for <JD>[14.01.1619]</JD> and the _only_ thing that appears is my timesheet for this specific week.

This is incredibly useful when I have to remind him to approve it so that I can get paid. (He gets far too much email and, unfortunately, I’m the only one that sends it to him already categorised.)

---

# Archiving files

I need to keep old copies of files. Say it’s a spreadsheet that I’m updating, but I want to keep the previous version in case I mess it up.

This is also an exception to the ‘you can’t create a folder inside a Johnny.Decimal folder’ rule. In this case, feel free to create a folder called <JD>archive</JD> and move things in to it.

<Navigation
	backURL="/concepts/working-at-the-terminal"
	backTitle="Working at the terminal"
	nextURL={null}
	nextTitle={null}
/>

Commit message:

New post + blog #tagging system

src/spec-mdx/exceptions-to-the-rules/exceptions-to-the-rules.mdx, after:

---
title: "Exceptions to the rules"
slug: "/concepts/exceptions-to-the-rules/"
date: "2021-01-01T12:12+10:00"
summary: "Because rules are meant to be broken, right?"
---

import finder_14_timesheets_and_expenses from "./Finder__14-timesheets-and-expenses-min.png"

# Exceptions to the rules

**Where it makes sense to do so**, go ahead and break the rules. I won’t judge you.

## Storing things with dates in them

An example from my life: I sent weekly timesheets to a company I worked for. Category <JD>14 Timesheets &amp; expenses</JD> is where I kept them.

I thought about creating a new number for each week’s timesheets, but soon ended up with a system like this:

<div className="mb-4 mr-6">
	<pre className="jd-block">
		{`14.01 Timesheets for 1601
14.02 Timesheets for 1602
...
14.19 Timesheets for 1619`}
	</pre>
</div>

(I use ‘year-week’ as my date format for this sort of thing, so <span className="jd-inline not-italic">1601</span> was the 1st week of 2016. Use whatever works for you.)

If I had created a new number each week, I’d need to <Link to="/concepts/tracking-your-numbers/">track it</Link>. That’s an overhead I didn’t need – **the system is meant to make my life easier.**

More importantly, <JD>1619</JD> is a _better_ way to represent ‘the 19th week of 2016’ than <JD>14.19</JD>. In this case, my numbers were getting in the way.

## Folders inside Johnny.Decimal folders

I told you not to do this. I am not to be trusted.

Here’s how my timesheets folder looks:

<img
	src={finder_14_timesheets_and_expenses}
	alt="Finder window showing folders within the 14 Timesheets & Expenses folder"
	width="293"
	height="134"
	className="screenshot mb-4"
/>

I did this because **it makes more sense this way.**

My timesheets are still in one place. I haven’t broken the Johnny.Decimal system because everything is still very organised.

Notice that things still sort according to time of creation. That's why we use <JD>1601</JD> and not <JD>0116</JD>

### Emailing my weekly timesheet

When I email my weekly timesheet to the boss, I use the following subject line:

<div className="emailSubject mr-2 sm:mr-6 inline-block">
	<strong>Subject:</strong> Timesheets and expenses [14.01.1619]
</div>

I’m extending the ‘<Link to="/concepts/managing-email/">use Johnny.Decimal numbers in your email subject</Link>’ concept by putting the full number, including the <JD>yyww</JD> bit, in the subject. Our number has grown, but **that’s okay because it’s still very structured.**

This allows me—or the boss—to find any timesheet instantly. Search in Outlook for <JD>[14.01.1619]</JD> and the _only_ thing that appears is my timesheet for this specific week.

This is incredibly useful when I have to remind him to approve it so that I can get paid. (He gets far too much email and, unfortunately, I’m the only one that sends it to him already categorised.)

---

# Archiving files

I need to keep old copies of files. Say it’s a spreadsheet that I’m updating, but I want to keep the previous version in case I mess it up.

This is also an exception to the ‘you can’t create a folder inside a Johnny.Decimal folder’ rule. In this case, feel free to create a folder called <JD>archive</JD> and move things in to it.

---

## Blog posts

The following blog posts expand on this idea.

<BlogIndexItem
	title="Setting up a new project"
	date="17th January 2021"
	summary="Walking through the setup of a new home project."
	url="/blog/20210117-setting-up-a-new-project/"
	tags="example"
/>

<Navigation
	backURL="/concepts/working-at-the-terminal"
	backTitle="Working at the terminal"
	nextURL={null}
	nextTitle={null}
/>
